# this-package
No description provided (generated by Openapi JSON Schema Generator https://github.com/openapi-json-schema-tools/openapi-json-schema-generator)

This Python package is automatically generated by the [OpenAPI JSON Schema Generator](https://github.com/openapi-json-schema-tools/openapi-json-schema-generator) project:

- API version: 1.0
- Package version: 1.0.0
- Build package: PythonClientCodegen

## Requirements

Python &gt;&#x3D;3.7

## Migration Guides
- [2.0.0 Migration Guide](migration_2_0_0.md)
- [Migration from Other Python Generators](migration_other_python_generators.md)


## Installation
### pip install

If the python package is hosted on a repository, you can install directly using:

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID.git
```
(you may need to run `pip` with root permission: `sudo pip install git+https://github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID.git`)

Then import the package:
```python
import this_package
```

### Setuptools

Install via [Setuptools](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools).

```sh
python -m pip install . --user
```
(or `python -m pip install .` to install the package for all users)

Then import the package:
```python
import this_package
```

## Usage Notes
### Validation, Immutability, and Data Type
This python code validates data to schema classes and return back an immutable instance containing the data
which subclasses all validated schema classes. This ensure that
- valid data cannot be mutated and become invalid to a set of schemas
  - the one exception is that files are not immutable, so schema instances storing/sending/receiving files are not immutable
- one can use isinstance to check if a instance or property is valid to a schema class
  - this means that expensive validation does not need to be run twice

<details>
    <summary>Reason</summary>

To do that, some changes had to be made. Python bool and NoneType cannot be subclassed,
so to be able to meet the above design goals, I implemented BoolClass and NoneClass classes
to allow schemas to subclass them.

In python 0 == False and 1 == True. This is a problem for json schema which is language independent.
The [json schema test suite](https://github.com/json-schema-org/JSON-Schema-Test-Suite) has
[explicit tests that require that 0 != False and 1 != True](https://github.com/json-schema-org/JSON-Schema-Test-Suite/blob/main/tests/draft2020-12/type.json#L260-L267)
Using the above described BoolClass and NoneClasses allows those tests to pass.
- Another example of a package using it's own boolean class is [numpy's bool_](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/arrays.scalars.html#numpy.bool_)
</details>

If you need to check is True/False/None, instead use instance.is_true_()/.is_false_()/.is_none_()

Here is the mapping from json schema types to python subclassed types:
| Json Schema Type | Python Base Class |
| ---------------- | ----------------- |
| object           | frozendict.frozendict |
| array            | tuple |
| string           | str |
| number           | decimal.Decimal |
| integer          | decimal.Decimal |
| boolean          | BoolClass |
| null             | NoneClass |
| AnyType (unset)  | typing.Union[frozendict.frozendict, tuple, str, decimal.Decimal, BoolClass, NoneClass] |

### Storage of Json Schema Definition in Python Classes
In openapi v3.0.3 there are ~ 28 json schema keywords. Almost all of them can apply if
type is unset. This data could be stored as
1. class properties
2. in a container in the class like in a dict or in a nested class

This data is stored in a nested class named Schema_.
Storing this data as a nested class ensures that the data is encapsulated, does not collide with
class properties, and allows for deeper complex inline definitions.

<details>
  <summary>Reason</summary>

If the data were stored at the class property level, then the keywords could collide with
type object property names. To avoid that, one could make the properties semi or fully private with
a single or double underscore prefix, but that it a lot of data to put there.
Better to separate out json schema data from type object properties at the class property level.

If the data were stored in a container that would segregate the different data which is good.
But json schemas can be inlined to any depth. Those complex deeper schemas would need to be included.
One could define them higher in the class file and then refer to them in the dict. That would required
iterating over schemas and adding all of the inner into a collection, and then generate that collection.

The schema definitions are already nested from the json schema definition. The easiest solution is
to use a nested json schema definition class which holds that data. That way:
- the data is separated from class properties
- deeper complicated schemas can still be stored

So a nested class was chosen to store json schema data, this class is named Schema_.
- The [django project uses this same pattern to store model class metadata in a Meta class](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/topics/db/models/#meta-options)
</details>

### Json Schema Type Object
Most component schemas (models) are probably of type object. Which is a map data structure.
Json schema allows string keys in this map, which means schema properties can have key names that are
invalid python variable names. Names like:
- "hi-there"
- "1variable"
- "@now"
- " "
- "from"

To allow these use cases to work, frozendict.frozendict is used as the base class of type object schemas.
This means that one can use normal dict methods on instances of these classes.

<details>
  <summary>Other Details</summary>

- optional properties which were not set will not exist in the instance
- None is only allowed in as a value if type: "null" was included or nullable: true was set
- type hints are written for accessing values by key literals like instance["hi-there"]
- and there is a method instance.get_item_["hi-there"] which returns an schemas.Unset value if the key was not set
- required properties with valid python names are accessible with instance.SomeRequiredProp
  which uses the exact key from the openapi document
  - preserving the original key names is required to properly validate a payload to multiple json schemas
</details>

### Json Schema Type + Format, Validated Data Storage
N schemas can be validated on the same payload.
To allow multiple schemas to validate, the data must be stored using one base class whether or not
a json schema format constraint exists in the schema.
See te below accessors for string data:
- type string + format: See .as_date_, .as_datetime_, .as_decimal_, .as_uuid_

In json schema, type: number with no format validates both integers and floats, so decimal.Decimal is used to store them.
See te below accessors for number data:
- type number + format: See .as_float_, .as_int_

<details>
  <summary>String + Date Example</summary>

For example the string payload '2023-12-20' is validates to both of these schemas:
1. string only
```
- type: string
```
2. string and date format
```
- type: string
  format: date
```
Because of use cases like this, a datetime.date is allowed as an input to this schema, but the data
is stored as a string, with a date accessor, instance.as_date_
</details>

## Getting Started

Please follow the [installation procedure](#installation) and then run the following:

```python
import this_package
from this_package.configurations import api_configuration
from this_package.apis.tags import default_api
from pprint import pprint
used_configuration = api_configuration.ApiConfiguration(
)
# Enter a context with an instance of the API client
with this_package.ApiClient(used_configuration) as api_client:
    # Create an instance of the API class
    api_instance = default_api.DefaultApi(api_client)

    # example, this endpoint has no required or optional parameters
    try:
        # path with no explicit security
        api_response = api_instance.path_with_no_explicit_security()
        pprint(api_response)
    except this_package.ApiException as e:
        print("Exception when calling DefaultApi->path_with_no_explicit_security: %s\n" % e)
```

## Servers
server_index | Class | Description
------------ | ----- | ------------
0 | [Server0](docs/servers/server_0.md) |

## Security

Set auth info by setting ApiConfiguration.security_scheme_info to a dict where the
key is the below security scheme quoted name, and the value is an instance of the linked
component security scheme class. See how to do this in the endpoint code sample.

| Security Index | Security Scheme to Scope Names |
| -------------- | ------------------------------ |
| 0       | ["api_key"](docs/components/security_schemes/security_scheme_api_key.md) []<br> |
| 1       | ["http_basic_test"](docs/components/security_schemes/security_scheme_http_basic_test.md) []<br> |
| 2       | no security |
| 3       | ["http_basic_test"](docs/components/security_schemes/security_scheme_http_basic_test.md) []<br>["api_key"](docs/components/security_schemes/security_scheme_api_key.md) []<br> |
| 4       | ["oauthClientCredentials"](docs/components/security_schemes/security_scheme_oauth_client_credentials.md) [read:pets]<br> |
| 5       | ["oauthPassword"](docs/components/security_schemes/security_scheme_oauth_password.md) [write:pets]<br> |

## Endpoints

All URIs are relative to the selected server
- The server is selected by passing in server_info and server_index into api_configuration.ApiConfiguration
- Code samples in endpoints documents show how to do this
- server_index can also be passed in to endpoint calls, see endpoint documentation

HTTP request | Method | Description
------------ | ------ | -------------
/pathWithNoExplicitSecurity **get** | [DefaultApi](docs/apis/tags/default_api.md).[path_with_no_explicit_security](docs/paths/path_with_no_explicit_security/get.md)  | path with no explicit security
/pathWithOneExplicitSecurity **get** | [DefaultApi](docs/apis/tags/default_api.md).[path_with_one_explicit_security](docs/paths/path_with_one_explicit_security/get.md)  | path with one explicit security
/pathWithSecurityFromRoot **get** | [DefaultApi](docs/apis/tags/default_api.md).[path_with_security_from_root](docs/paths/path_with_security_from_root/get.md)  | path with security from root
/pathWithTwoExplicitSecurity **get** | [DefaultApi](docs/apis/tags/default_api.md).[path_with_two_explicit_security](docs/paths/path_with_two_explicit_security/get.md)  | path with two explicit security

## Component SecuritySchemes

Class | Description
----- | ------------
[ApiKey](docs/components/security_schemes/security_scheme_api_key.md) | apiKey in header
[BearerTest](docs/components/security_schemes/security_scheme_bearer_test.md) | http bearer with JWT bearer format
[HttpBasicTest](docs/components/security_schemes/security_scheme_http_basic_test.md) | http basic
[OauthClientCredentials](docs/components/security_schemes/security_scheme_oauth_client_credentials.md) | oauth2 implicit flow with two scopes
[OauthPassword](docs/components/security_schemes/security_scheme_oauth_password.md) | oauth2 implicit flow with two scopes


## Notes for Large OpenAPI documents
If the OpenAPI document is large, imports in this_package.apis.tags.tag_to_api and this_package.components.schemas may fail with a
RecursionError indicating the maximum recursion limit has been exceeded. In that case, there are a couple of solutions:

Solution 1:
Use specific imports for apis and models like:
- tagged api: `from this_package.apis.tags.default_api import DefaultApi`
- api for one path: `from this_package.apis.paths.some_path import SomePath`
- api for one operation (path + verb): `from this_package.paths.some_path.get import ApiForget`
- single model import: `from this_package.components.schema.pet import Pet`

Solution 2:
Before importing the package, adjust the maximum recursion limit as shown below:
```
import sys
sys.setrecursionlimit(1500)
import this_package
from this_package.apis.tags.tag_to_api import *
from this_package.components.schemas import *
```
